on this section off the cores were going to speak about error handling in xlv b A.
So on the process off writing code in XlV B A and developing applications,
you are bound to get errors no matter what your skill level is as a developer.
And on this video,
we're going to have an introduction to are handling in xlv b A and we're going to learn
about the different er types in XlV b A.
So in xlv A,
we've got three main types of errors that you might encounter.
We've got Syntex errors and we've got compile errors and we've got run time errors.
And to understand the difference between them,
we need to understand how vb a checks our code when we write our coat.
So VB A does three types of checks.
When we write our code,
the first type is syntax checks and the second type is compile checks and the third type is
run time checks.
So first of all,
starting with syntax checks,
these Syntex checks are basically like spelling and grammar checks if we relate that to
English language.
So when VB A checks your code on this type of checks on Syntex checks.
It asks the question.
Does your code have any spelling or grammar mistakes?
So it basically searches for any grammar or spending mistakes on your code.
So let's have an example.
For example,
here,
if you write workbooks and then molly workbook dot open,
you will immediately.
If you write it this way,
you will immediately get your code turn into red color.
So write it or quote,
turn into red color.
Here,
it's because we're having a spelling mistake,
which is basically not putting a second double quote after the word my workbook.
So the word my workbook needs to be enclosed in to double quotes.
We've got only one double court here on the left.
We don't have a closing double quote,
so this is in V.
B.
A's book is basically a spelling mistake,
and this is a syntax error,
and you will get notified about this error by having your code highlighted in red.
And this is because syntax checks are done in real time as you write your VB a code,
so if you make any errors,
you will get notified immediately by having your code turning into red.
The second type of checks is basically compiled checks.
So compile checks.
Ask the question.
Does your code make sense?
So this is actually kind of the question that v b a.
Us about your code.
Does your code make sense?
And this is done before attempting to run your coat.
So before your code starts to run and just after you hit the run button,
this check is done.
And if you have an error,
you will have an error that says,
Compile our and you will have the air and your code will not start to run.
The third type of checks that get done on your coat are basically runtime checks.
One time checks.
Ask the question.
Can what you need to do be done.
And this is done when your code is running while executing each line of code.
Okay,
so let's have an example for each type of errors in XlV B A.
So starting with Syntex Er's syntax errors are similar to spelling or punctuation errors in
English language.
So if you write in English,
I love chocolate and you write the spelling off chocolate incorrectly.
As I did hear,
you're basically making a spelling mistake and this is similar to writing workbooks.
My workbook without a closing double court here dot open.
You made a spending mistake and your code will turn into red.
Okay,
so these air syntax errors compilers are basically errors where you have your spelling and
punctuation correct.
However,
the context that you're using the words in does not make sense.
Remember,
on compiled check,
we ask the question,
Does your code make sense?
So I'm gonna have an example here in the English language.
So if somebody tells you,
I fly my car to work every day.
Okay,
so this sentence,
I fly my car to work every day does not have any spelling earners,
and it does not have any punctuation,
er's and it's grammatically correct.
However,
this sentence does not make sense.
Why?
So what's the error?
What's the problem?
While the problem is,
cars cannot fly right,
at least not your average car.
I mean,
your average car does not fly.
You probably could have seen a science fiction movie where cars fly,
but for now,
at least,
your average car for now does not fly.
They could fly in the future,
but for now,
cars cannot fly.
So if we try to relate that to V B A.
This error can happen when you write a word that exists in the V B A dictionary,
however,
using it in the wrong context.
So,
for example,
if you're right,
workbook,
my workbook dot open.
So where is the problem here?
So this would generate a compiler.
Why?
Because having the word workbook is not correct In this context,
the word workbook does exist in the V B.
A dictionary.
So VB recognizes the word workbook and you will not get a syntax error.
However,
using it in this context is incorrect because you should use work books,
not workbook,
So this will result in a compile error.
So how would you fix that?
You need to make sure that you're using words in the right context.
Run time errors result from something that can be done normally.
So usually this thing that you're trying to do can be done normally.
But in this particular case,
it could not be done,
so this can result in a run time error and run time Errors result when you start running
your coat,
so actually you will have your runtime our on a certain line of code that has a problem.
OK,
so you will have it after your code starts to run.
So to relate that we're not going to relate it to English language because runtime ours are
more about actions,
not just words and languages will related to normal life for real life.
So,
for example,
if you try to drive your car with an empty gas tank,
so driving your car is something that can be done normally.
However,
in this case on Lee,
you could not do it because you did not have any gas in the tank.
So trying to do a valid action driving your car,
it's a valid action.
It's something that can normally be done.
However,
it cannot be done on this particular time or in this particular occasion because you did
not have any gas in the tank,
so v a.
This can happen,
for example,
if you're trying to select a work sheep that does not exist in your workbook.
So,
for example,
if you're right worksheets my worksheet that select,
however,
my worksheet does not exist in your workbook.
You do not have a worksheet called my work sheep.
So you will not get the air until you attempt to run this particular line of code that says
worksheets.
My worksheet does select.
So selecting the worksheet is a valid action.
You just could not do it in this particular case because the worksheet is not available in
your workbook.
Then you will get a run time error.
So how can you fix that?
You need to make sure that what you're trying to do can be done,
plus apply air handling in case it cannot be done.
That is,
if the work she does not exist.
Then write some code to create the worksheet before running that line of code that is going
to make you select the worksheet,
for example.
And this is what we're gonna learn.
Actually,
in this part of the course are handling how to deal with errors,
how to make sure the heirs do not occur on your coat.
Okay,
so this guy's was a quick introduction to air handling and XlV be a on the upcoming videos
.
We're going to dig deeper into air handling.
Thank you very much watching this video,
and I'll see you on the next one